First of all IP addresses IP addresses is logical addresses meaning that they are not hardcoded into
our network cut and they can thereby be switched from day to day mean that the IP address that one of
your devices today maybe not be the address that it has tomorrow because your router may be giving another
device that IP when you device disconnect from the Internet.
And also the IP address that you have at your Internet service provider can also be changed but that
is a bit more difficult to do.
So if she is a she in the picture right here we have different IP addresses.
We have our IP V4 address which is this one right here.
And we have our IP B6 address right here.
And as you see there is a clear difference between the two of them.
So we're going to see what the difference is.
But first of all you need to understand that there are public and private eyepiece.
So the private APIs are the ones that are internally in your network.
So if you have a computer or any device connected to your router at your home they all have a private
IP meaning that it is your router that gives out these APIs and most likely these eyepiece will look
like this right here as we see we have these two computers and they share similar addresses where this
is ending it hundred.
And this is one hundred and one and then all the traffic internally on your network is controlled bound
by your rara based on the IP that has been distributed in the DTP.
Then we have the public IP which is the one that is showing outside to the world.
So this is the IP that the internet web pages that you visit will be having in the logs when you're
connecting to them or whoever you communicate with on the outside we'll see this IP because this is
your public IP given to you by your Internet service provider.
So this is the difference between the public and the private IP.
So if you do a scan on your network and see all these internally APIs and then you go to do what my
IP that com or some similar site you will see that even though you see that your computer have this
address this is the one that is getting showed to the outside world.
But let's get into the IP versions.
This is IP vision for which is the old version and it is currently being changed so that it will be
moved over to IP B6 on the wider internet and not necessarily internally because IP for version consists
of 32 bit addresses meaning that we have failed to bits and this is that is because our computers can
only understand binary language meaning once and zeros where if you have a one meaning that it is on
zero.
It is off similar to your lightning switch.
It can be on and off.
And that is really down in the basic what a computer understand.
So an IP for address is divided into four sets of eight binaries.
So for example this is the IP address and this right here Kurzban to say an address similar to this
one because this has been translated into the numbers where as these represent the binaries.
So this is down to the basic binary address of our IP formation.
So let's have a look at how this is translated from clear binaries into the four sets we saw before.
So now we have our binary address right here with force faucet of a binary and we're using this little
template to translate it into the numbers that we saw in our address and which is the ones we are seeing
when talking about IP before.
So we just take these banners at them into this right here.
Just small like so then we simply just say one because the first one is one that we see one then we
have zero then we have one and one and we have a serial and the last twos ones as well.
So now these right here match the first set of eight right here.
Then what we have to do is simply just to add these together.
So we simply just see 180 plus seat four plus 16 plus eight plus two plus one.
And that's equal to two hundred and nineteen.
So this is the first number so this is going to be two hundred and nineteen.
And then the next group and the next to the next group again we do the similar thing.
So and examiners will be that we just end up with something like this.
Oh so.
So this could be an address that we could end up if these were the right numbers.
This is just an example.
So this is not what is going on here.
Well you can try it on your own and calculate the exact address of the last three sets we can however
also go in the opposite direction.
So if you remove this and let's say we didn't know this binary right here but we only have this IP and
we needed to know what kind of binary group said would we have then we said we just take 219 and we
just oh just move is
like so.
And then we simply we just say two hundred nineteen can two hundred and nineteen be within one hundred
twenty eight years it can and then we simply subtract one hundred and twenty eight from two hundred
nineteen.
Now we say can sixty four be within the value that we have left.
And again it can and now we see you can further to be within this value it cannot because we have already
subtracted one hundred and twenty eight and sixty four.
So this will be a zero and then again we say can sixteen be within the value that we have left it can
can it be within the remaining value now that we have subtract about one hundred twenty eight sixty
four and sixteen it can count for being the remaining value but as this is tree it can't.
So this will be a zero as well and then two and one can be within this so.
Oh so this is the way that you can calculate the values in both directions.
So now it's time to look into what the problems it is with the current IP version 4 so not only have
seen what the IP version 4 looked like in time to talk about the problems with it the problem with this
IP version is that as we it is a 32 bit address it is only possible to have 4 billion different addresses
and as the world get more and more devices connected to the internet we now not only have computers
we have webcams we have kitchens to we have cars and robots and all kinds of different stuff is getting
connected to news meaning that the current version simply do not have enough unique eyepiece and we
can generate enough unique addresses out of this 32 bit address which is IP version 4.
So the world needs something new.
And that is where IP IP version 6 comes into play.
So as you might remember from the first lad we saw an IP version 6 which is this one right here.
And instead of being of the two bits This is one hundred and twenty eight bits and it is based on XA
decimals and we can have trillions of trillions of unique addresses in this 128 bit address range because
each of these characters is based on a four binary group and we will head over again to see how such
is generated in hexadecimal.
So now to how we can calculate the hexadecimal IP 6 address based on the binary.
So as we see right here we have the first group of F E eight 0 which is the one that we are going to
try to conclude with the F so as we see right here we have the decimal right here and we have the hexagon
dismal right here.
So from 0 to 9 d equals 0 0 0 4 4 8 8.
But when we get to 10 then the hexadecimal is going to be a eleven b and so forth down to 15 which is
F so the way that we can calculate this in binary is similar to what we learned before.
So we can see if is it within if which correspond to 15 years it is.
So we will see one then we subtract eight from 15 and then we say is four within this value again.
Yes it is.
And then we can do that for the rest.
And since f is the largest value and these equals 15 we can just add the last ones at once.
So now we know that the first binary set of this hexadecimal group is going to be 1 1 1 1 corresponding
to the F and then we can do that for each of the values and then to illustrate and the like symbol.
Now we could just say 1 1 1 and then the next value let's just delete this at the next value will be
e.
So let's see.
E And that correspond to the value below here.
So that will just be 1 1 1 0 because we are missing the last value from 15.
So that will be let's see.
Right.
There will be 1 1 1 0 and then we have an 8 and that is 8.
So that will just be 1 and then the rest will be serious relative 0 0 0 and then we have a zero meaning
that it is false heroes or 0 0 0 0.
So this value right here is the binary format of this first four characters right here.
So that is why the IP version 6 can have so many addresses because there there's so many more opportunities
to have unique addresses within this address space of 128 bits.
Then one last thing to be aware of is this double call on right here.
So if you see an address for example what we have in the picture and then call on like this and then
it continues then it means that because as you see right here this is not 128 bits because the address
is much longer.
If it is filled with all the values.
But when we have two column columns like this this means that from this point on onto the next point
right here it should just be filled with zeros.
And that is done for us to not have such long addresses but we can utilize this feature just to remove
all the zeros from the address base but our computer will know that there should be the remaining values
up to 180 but when looking at this length it should just be filled with zeros.
So this was IP four and IP six.